README.md, before:

# Git D(iff) E(xport)
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/whatsmynameidontknow/git-de/blob/main/media/demo.gif?raw=true" alt="git-de demo"/>
</p>

A **CLI** tool to export files changed between Git commits while preserving directory structure.

## Installation

```bash
go install github.com/whatsmynameidontknow/git-de/cmd/git-de@latest
```

Or download from [releases](https://github.com/whatsmynameidontknow/git-de/releases).

## Usage

```bash
git-de [options] <from-commit> [<to-commit>]
```

### Arguments

- `from-commit` - Starting commit (branch, tag, or SHA) **(required if in CLI mode)**
- `to-commit` - Ending commit (defaults to `HEAD`)

### Options

| Flag               | Description                                         | TUI Mode                           | CLI Mode    |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ----------- |
| `-f, --from`       | Starting commit (alternative to positional arg)     | ✅ Used                             | ✅ Used      |
| `-t, --to`         | Ending commit (defaults to HEAD)                    | ✅ Used                             | ✅ Used      |
| `-o, --output`     | Output directory                                    | ❌ Ignored (TUI asks interactively) | ✅ Required* |
| `-w, --overwrite`  | Overwrite existing output directory                 | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `-c, --concurrent` | Copy files concurrently                             | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `-v, --verbose`    | Enable verbose output                               | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `-i, --ignore`     | Ignore patterns (comma-separated or multiple flags) | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `-I, --include`    | Include patterns - only export files matching these | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `--max-size`       | Maximum file size to export (e.g., 10MB, 500KB)     | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `-a, --archive`    | Export directly to archive (.zip, .tar, .tar.gz)    | ❌ Ignored (skips TUI)              | ✅ Used*     |
| `--no-tui`         | Force CLI mode even in interactive terminal         | —                                  | —           |
| `-h, --help`       | Show help                                           | —                                  | —           |

**Legend:** ✅ = Used, ❌ = Ignored

**Notes:**
 - `-o` and `-a` are mutually exclusive — use one or the other. Both skip the TUI and run in CLI mode.
 - Specifying `-o` or `-a` without `from-commit` will go into TUI mode and ignore the output/archive flags, prompting for commits and output interactively.
 - In TUI mode, you select commits from a list. While you can pass branch names or tags as command-line arguments (e.g., `git-de main`), the interactive commit picker displays only commit SHAs.

### Examples

```bash
# Launch TUI (default in terminal)
git-de

# Launch TUI with initial commit range
git-de HEAD~5

# CLI mode - export directly
git-de HEAD~5 HEAD -o ./export

# Export .go files only to a zip archive
git-de HEAD~5 HEAD -I "*.go" -a export.zip

# Concurrent export with ignore patterns
git-de main develop -o ./export -c -i "*.log,node_modules/"

# Force CLI mode in terminal
git-de --no-tui HEAD~5 HEAD -o ./export
```

## Features

- ✅ **Interactive TUI** - Select commits and files visually
- ✅ **Archive Export** - Direct to ZIP or Tar.gz
- ✅ **Size Limits** - Prevent exporting accidental large blobs
- ✅ **Include/Ignore Patterns** - Powerful whitelist/blacklist filtering
- ✅ **Preview mode** - See changes without copying files
- ✅ **Concurrent copying** - High performance for large diffs
- ✅ **Cross-platform** - Works on Linux and Windows

## Requirements

- Go 1.25+ (for building from source)
- Git installed and in PATH

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: document TUI inclusive mode in README
Add a note explaining the inclusive mode toggle (i/I key) in the TUI.
This helps users discover the feature without having to run the tool first.

README.md, after:

# Git D(iff) E(xport)
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/whatsmynameidontknow/git-de/blob/main/media/demo.gif?raw=true" alt="git-de demo"/>
</p>

A **CLI** tool to export files changed between Git commits while preserving directory structure.

## Installation

```bash
go install github.com/whatsmynameidontknow/git-de/cmd/git-de@latest
```

Or download from [releases](https://github.com/whatsmynameidontknow/git-de/releases).

## Usage

```bash
git-de [options] <from-commit> [<to-commit>]
```

### Arguments

- `from-commit` - Starting commit (branch, tag, or SHA) **(required if in CLI mode)**
- `to-commit` - Ending commit (defaults to `HEAD`)

### Options

| Flag               | Description                                         | TUI Mode                           | CLI Mode    |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ----------- |
| `-f, --from`       | Starting commit (alternative to positional arg)     | ✅ Used                             | ✅ Used      |
| `-t, --to`         | Ending commit (defaults to HEAD)                    | ✅ Used                             | ✅ Used      |
| `-o, --output`     | Output directory                                    | ❌ Ignored (TUI asks interactively) | ✅ Required* |
| `-w, --overwrite`  | Overwrite existing output directory                 | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `-c, --concurrent` | Copy files concurrently                             | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `-v, --verbose`    | Enable verbose output                               | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `-i, --ignore`     | Ignore patterns (comma-separated or multiple flags) | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `-I, --include`    | Include patterns - only export files matching these | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `--max-size`       | Maximum file size to export (e.g., 10MB, 500KB)     | ❌ Ignored                          | ✅ Used      |
| `-a, --archive`    | Export directly to archive (.zip, .tar, .tar.gz)    | ❌ Ignored (skips TUI)              | ✅ Used*     |
| `--no-tui`         | Force CLI mode even in interactive terminal         | —                                  | —           |
| `-h, --help`       | Show help                                           | —                                  | —           |

**Legend:** ✅ = Used, ❌ = Ignored

**Notes:**
 - `-o` and `-a` are mutually exclusive — use one or the other. Both skip the TUI and run in CLI mode.
 - Specifying `-o` or `-a` without `from-commit` will go into TUI mode and ignore the output/archive flags, prompting for commits and output interactively.
 - In TUI mode, you select commits from a list. While you can pass branch names or tags as command-line arguments (e.g., `git-de main`), the interactive commit picker displays only commit SHAs.

> **TUI Inclusive Mode**: Press `i` or `I` in the TUI to toggle "inclusive mode." When enabled, the diff includes changes from the FROM commit itself (equivalent to using `commit^` syntax).

### Examples

```bash
# Launch TUI (default in terminal)
git-de

# Launch TUI with initial commit range
git-de HEAD~5

# CLI mode - export directly
git-de HEAD~5 HEAD -o ./export

# Export .go files only to a zip archive
git-de HEAD~5 HEAD -I "*.go" -a export.zip

# Concurrent export with ignore patterns
git-de main develop -o ./export -c -i "*.log,node_modules/"

# Force CLI mode in terminal
git-de --no-tui HEAD~5 HEAD -o ./export
```

## Features

- ✅ **Interactive TUI** - Select commits and files visually
- ✅ **Archive Export** - Direct to ZIP or Tar.gz
- ✅ **Size Limits** - Prevent exporting accidental large blobs
- ✅ **Include/Ignore Patterns** - Powerful whitelist/blacklist filtering
- ✅ **Preview mode** - See changes without copying files
- ✅ **Concurrent copying** - High performance for large diffs
- ✅ **Cross-platform** - Works on Linux and Windows

## Requirements

- Go 1.25+ (for building from source)
- Git installed and in PATH

## License

MIT
